<div align="center">

# **S3 (Bucket) - Amazon Simple Storage Service**

</div>

# Features

    * Object Storage - Every file is stored as an object.
    * Scalable - scale automatically, can store as much data as you need.
    * Pay as You Go - Pricing is based on the volume of data you store and the traffic (data transfer) used. You pay for what you use.
    * Durability and Availability - offers 99.999999999% (11 9’s) durability, meaning your files are highly safe and won’t be lost.
    * Access Control -  lets you define who can access your data using permissions and IAM roles.
    * Versioning - keep multiple versions of an object, which helps protect against accidental deletions or overwrites (need to be Enabled).
    * Lifecycle Management - set policies to automatically transition objects to different storage classes (e.g., from Standard to Glacier for archiving) or delete objects after a certain period.
    * Data Encryption - supports both server-side encryption (automatically encrypts data at rest) and client-side encryption (you can encrypt data before uploading).
    and more ....
     
__Global Accessibility__ - S3 is available tp al Regions.
    
<div align="center">

# **Create S3 bucket**

</div>

## 1. Sign in to AWS Console and Navigate to S3.

## 2. press"create bucket"

fill:

      Bucket name: fill a unique name for your bucket.
      BlockPubluc: remove if needed to open to public.
      versioning: allow to keep multiple versions of an object, which helps protect against accidental deletions or overwrites.

__press "create bucket"__

## 3. IAM Permissions for S3 Access

after creating the S3 bucket. Navigate inside it and select Permission tab.

permission can be set in 2 ways:

1. enableing/ disabling throw the __Block Public__ section.

2. setting under "Access Control List".

example of a JSON define the policy (open to all):

      {
         "version": "2012-10-17",
         "Id": "PolicyForPublicWebsiteContent",
         "Statement": [
            {
            "sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal":{
               "AWS": "*"
            },
            "Action": "s3"GetObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<Bucket_Name> /*"
            }
         ]
      }

<div align="center">

# **Setting S3 as WebSite**

</div>

## 1. Configure Domain

Create a DNS record that points to your S3 static website endpoint.

best practice is to host the Domain_name at AWS and use Route 53 as DNS service.

      under Route53 --> "create hosted Zone --> enter your domain, set to public --> create
      
(optionaly - create a CNAME pointing to host )

## 2. create S3 bucket

Creating the Bucket for hosting the site.

      Navigate to S3 --> create Bucket (bucket name should be the site name- e.g www.website.com) -->
            remove Block public (all)
            versioning - enable for keep versions (allowing roll back)
      --> Create bucket

## 3. set Static Website

      Navigate to the Bucket (under S3) --> properties --> choose - Static Website hosting

## 4. [Route 53](route53.md)

stting DNS to the webpage (bucket)

      Navigate to Route53 --> under Hosted Zones --> select the Domain Name --> create Record

         record name: www
         record Type: A-record...
         Alias --> Alias to s3 website --> choose S3 region
         under S3 bucket --> choose the bucket name.

## 5. permissions

navigate to S3 Bucket --> enter the backet requiered --> permission tab --> bucket policy (set the access as needed).

